In order to solve coing problems we need to learn these data structures and these algorithms.
It doesn't look that bad does it.
Here's the big secret.
There are a lot more data structures in this and a lot more algorithms than this.
But just like when you learn a new language you don't read through the dictionary and learn every single
word in that dictionary.
And that language Instead you focus on being able to communicate with others.
You only focus on things that are being used most of the time.
And when it comes to data structures and algorithms these are where you're going to get asked on and
interviews because these are the ones that get used the most and 90 percent of the time to solve a really
complex problem you're only using these things.
It doesn't look that bad does it.
All you need is the base line skills and companies just want to know that you've prepared for the interview
and can succeed within their system.
A lot of people complain about coding interviews or white board interviews and how useless they are
because they never use some of these algorithms or data structure in their day to day job.
But they're just a way to weed out people that aren't willing to work hard.
Look at this as an advantage.
Not many people work on their interview questions.
You're going to work harder than 99 percent of the people out there because you know that getting a
good job will have a big impact on your life.
And I mean that's why you're taking the course.
And as you see here the good news is that it's not as hard as you think.
You just have to put your time and effort into the right things as long as we learn our right data structures.
When and why to use them how to implement them how to solve problems with them.
And same with algorithms and we combine it with our cheat sheet that I'll create for you when we compare
our code that is readable.
That is memory efficient and time efficient using big-O between these two.
That's all interviews are that's all coding interviews ask for.
If we go back to our online over the course we're now getting into the technical interview section.
And when I click over here it's going to look overwhelming at first and we're going to go over this
diagram so it all makes sense.
We're going to talk about different data structures that we have.
Let's zoom in a bit here.
You can see we're going to talk about arrays trees stacks and graphs and a lot more.
We're going to talk about the big O of each one of these data structures.
We're going to talk about different algorithms when to use what and like I said this is going to look
overwhelming at first but we're going to go through this step by step so that at the end all of this
makes sense to you.
We're also going to use the cheat sheet right over here to help us solve these coding problems.
Now in this cheat sheet we've already covered the three pillars of good code.
We already talked about what skills the interviewer is looking for but we haven't talked about this
part.
So let's start with this section in the next video.